Egyptian State media is reporting
significant progress toward a Gaza truce
between Hamas mediators Qatar and the
United States they have been holding
talks in Cairo in the hope of securing a
truce in the five-month war between
Israel and Hamas which is seen as a
terrorist organization by several
Nations now us officials have said that
Israel has broadly approved a deal
meanwhile US vice president kamla Harris
has called for an immediate ceasefire in
Gaza for at least the next 6 weeks her
comments are the strongest by a us
Administration official on Israel since
the war started Harris is hosting Benny
Gans on Monday a member of Israel's
wartime cabinet and a political rival of
President Benjamin Netanyahu gun will
also be meeting with other us senior
officials let's have a listen to what
Harris had to
say and
given the immense scale of suffering in
Gaza there must be an immediate
ceasefire for at least the next 6 weeks
which is what is currently on the
table this will get the hostages out and
get a significant amount of Aid in and
let's get more on that we are joined um
by Kareem alahari who has the view right
now from Cairo so you know we we're
getting these reports in reports of
significant progress this is at least
what the Egyptian State media are saying
what are you
hearing well it's a first of all very
very sketchy news we don't have any
official statements we know that uh
Hamas delegation Egyptian intelligence
the Qatari mediators and US intelligence
are sitting together in Cairo now we
have the Egyptian State media reporting
that there is significant progress
without any further substance or details
what this process process might entail
but one of the problems yesterday one of
the sticking points why the Israeli
delegation did not show up in Cairo was
that Israel demanded a list from Hamas
about uh who is going to be released the
names who is still alive who is injured
who is dead they wanted to have more
details about the hostages Hamas refuse
to give this details they say this will
be given when there will be finally a
ceasefire the other thing which is also
maybe important but also not confirmed
is that from the Israeli media there are
reports that the Israelis are now not
any longer demanding this list and uh
that they're demanding just the number
of people the number of hostages who are
still alive but very important all these
reports are not really officially
confirmed and we we're also getting
reports at least this is what uh the
United States is saying is that Israel
has already agreed to a framework for a
proposal and they are saying now that
it's up to Hamas to respond to that
proposal so um you know how do things
now progress and move
forward yes we know that all sides agree
to the framework and the framework is a
six we true truth and um they will set
free about 40 Israeli hostages in
exchange for the tenfold number of
Palestinians in Israeli prisons we have
about 9,000 Palestinians in Israeli
prisons many of them children 3,000 of
them with without any formal trial so uh
now one of the points that is point
where they both sides are not agreeing
is who is going to be released on the
Palestinian side in exchange for the
Israeli hostages Israel yesterday
presented a list of Palestinians they
are not willing to uh set free so I
think that's one of the main discussion
points in add addition to that Hamas is
also asking for guarantees that this
process of setting free more hostages
and then later possibly even more should
end up in a permanent ceasefire
basically in the end of the war that is
something Israel is not willing to
accept and I think this is one of the
main contradictions in this whole
negotiations we have here two sides
negotiating basically Israel is
negotiating with Hamas who at the same
time one of the formulated goals of this
war is the destruction of Hamas and this
is something of course that is decisive
for all the decisions both sides make
now within this negotiation process
journalist kareim alahari in Cairo thank
you you're
welcome